Use “thread” rather than “process” (#122)
ARM-software/abi-aa: aapcs64/aapcs64.rst

it must ensure that p4-p15 are preserved across the call. In other cases
it need not preserve any scalable predicate register contents.

Threads and processes
---------------------

The AAPCS64 applies to a single _`thread` of execution.  Each thread is in
turn part of a _`process`.  A process might contain one thread or several
threads.

The exact definition of “thread” and “process” depends on the platform.
If the platform is a traditional multi-threaded operating system,
“thread” and “process” generally have their usual meaning for that
operating system. If the platform supports multiple processes but has
no separate concept of threads, “thread” is synonymous with “process”.
If a platform has no concurrency or preemption then it will generally

> have a single “thread” and “process” that executes all instructions.

Reviewer: Avoid using quotation marks for emphasis - see Writing Guide https://confluence.arm.com/display/TCOM/Avoid+formatting+for+emphasis

Author: I wasn't really intending to use quotes for emphasis here.  This paragraph is trying to define what the ABI means by the terms “thread” and “process” (sometimes in circumstances where the concept of thread and process might seem unnatural).

Reviewer: In this case - I would just use the quotes in the first instance of the term in in the paragraph.

Reviewer: :)

Author: I'd rather keep the paragraph here.  But I've tried to reword it to avoid excessive quoting.

Each thread has its own register state, defined by the contents of the
underlying machine registers. A process has a program state defined by
its threads' register states and by the contents of the memory that the
process can access. The memory that a process can access, without causing

> a run-time fault, may vary during the execution of its threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a run-time fault, might vary during the execution of its threads.
```

Reviewer: Would 'can' work in this instance

Memory and the Stack
--------------------

Memory addresses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The address space may consist of one or more disjoint regions. No region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The address space might consist of one or more disjoint regions. No region
```

> may span address zero (although one region may start at zero).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
might span address zero (although one region may start at zero).
```

Reviewer 2: No, we use may consistently with the specific meaning of "permitted, but not required".  This is standard practice in standards documents.

Reviewer: could we use 'can' instead of 'may'. May is ambiguous for not-native speakers.

Can start at zero? I

Reviewer 3: "Can" expresses _capability_. "May" expresses _permission_. In an authoritative standard, the two are not the same – it's completely possible for there to be a thing you _can_ do, which is not also a thing that you _may_ do!

Reviewer 2: See my most recent comment.  'May' is the term used in equivalent standards documents for exactly the situation we have here.  In the context of standards it has a well defined and well understood meaning.
These documents are not end-user documentation. They are expected to be read by experienced developers who already understand such terms.  Trying to find alternative words is just going to cause confusion for the target audience.

Reviewer: Ok - I'll leave you to make the decision!

The use of tagged addressing is platform specific and does not apply to

> 32-bit pointers. When tagged addressing is disabled all 64 bits of an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
32-bit pointers. When tagged addressing is disabled, all 64 bits of an
```

- The heap.

- Stacks, with one stack for each thread.

Each category of memory can contain multiple individual regions.
These individual regions do not need to be contiguous and regions of one
memory class can be interspersed with regions of another memory class.

Writable static data may be further sub-divided into initialized, zero-initialized and uninitialized data.

> The heap is an area (or areas) of memory that are managed by the process itself (for example, with the C malloc function). It is typically used for the creation of dynamic data objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The heap is an area (or areas) of memory that the process manages (for example, with the C malloc function). It is typically used to create dynamic data objects.
```

Each individual stack must occupy a single, contiguous region of memory.
However, as noted above, multiple stacks do not need to be organized
contiguously.

> A process must always have access to code and stacks, but need not have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A process must always have access to code and stacks, but do not have
```

access to any of the other categories of memory.

A conforming program must only execute instructions that are in areas of memory designated to contain code.

The Stack
^^^^^^^^^

Each thread has a stack. This stack is a contiguous area of memory that the

> thread may use for storage of local variables and for passing additional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thread might use for storage of local variables and for passing additional
```

arguments to subroutines when there are insufficient argument registers
available.

The stack is defined in terms of three values:

* a base

* a limit

* the special-purpose register SP

> The SP moves from the base to the limit as the stack grows and from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SP moves from the base to the limit as the stack grows, and from the
```

limit to the base as the stack shrinks. In practice, an application might
not be able to determine the value of either the base or the limit.

In the description below, the base, limit and SP for a thread T are

> denoted T.base, T.limit and T.SP respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
denoted T.base, T.limit, and T.SP respectively.
```

The stack implementation is full-descending, so that for each thread T:

* T.limit < T.base and the stack occupies the area of memory delimited
  by the half-open internal [T.limit, T.base).

* The active region of T's stack is the area of memory delimited
  by the half-open interval [T.SP, T.base). The active region is empty
  when T.SP is equal to T.base.

* The inactive region of T's stack is the area of memory denoted
  by the half-open interval [T.limit, T.SP). The inactive region is empty
  when T.SP is equal to T.limit.

> The stack may have a fixed size or be dynamically extendable (by adjusting the stack-limit downwards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stack might have a fixed size or be dynamically extendable (by adjusting the stack-limit downwards).
```

Reviewer: The stack 'can' have a fixed size or be....?

These individual regions do not need to be contiguous and regions of one
memory class can be interspersed with regions of another memory class.

Writable static data may be further sub-divided into initialized, zero-initialized, and uninitialized data.

> The heap is an area (or areas) of memory that the process manages itself (for example, with the C malloc function). It is typically to create dynamic data objects.

Reviewer 2: typically used to create
or
typical to create
(I think I prefer the former).

- Stack-limit < SP ≤ stack-base. The stack pointer must lie within the extent of the stack.

> - A conforming program may only access (for reading or writing) the closed interval of the entire stack delimited by [SP, stack-base – 1].

Author: Good point.  I've tried to adjust the description of the stack accordingly.  Does the new version look OK?

Universal stack constraints
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> At all times during the execution of a thread T, the following basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At all times when a thread T executes, the following basic
```

Author: I think “during the execution of X” is the term I'd usually expect to see here.  For example, it occurs quite often in the C++ standard.

Reviewer: I'll leave this to your discretion. In Tech Comms style, we're encourage to write in the active voice where possible.

constraints must hold for its stack S:

- T.limit ≤ T.SP ≤ T.base. T's stack pointer must lie within the extent
  of the memory occupied by S.

- A conforming program must not access (for reading or writing) the
  inactive region of S. This is true regardless of whether the access

>   is performed by T or by some other thread.

Author: Yeah, but I think the idea was to tackle that as a separate PR.
